Marju's Version Control Lesson 2 Reflections

1) What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

   When you initialize a repository Git makes you a special hidden directory called .git that
   contains the metadata (commit history) of the repository. The metadata enables you to get
   back previous versions of the repository.


2) How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? 
   What value do you think it offers?

   Staging area is not a physical directory on your computer, it is more like an abstraction of
   directory. It makes possible to choose files you want to commit together also it is possible
   to take back files, if you change your mind and don't want to commit files.


3) How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

   You can use git diff with no arguments that will compare files in your working directory
   with files in your staging area. It shows only files that are modified. You can then make sure
   that in the staging area are files that present one logical change and so you can commit them
   together.


4) What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? 
   How would branches help?

   When you want to try out a new feature/version of your program, you can make a branch, and all
   commits that are associated with that branch belong to that version. So it is easy to go back
   to different versions because every branch has its own commit history.
   
   
5) How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

   Each branch is marked differently in the log list and so different from the master branch.


6) What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the 
   diagram the way we do?
   
   The result is all the commits that are in both branches.


7) What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
   
   Pros: you don't need to go through all the files by yourself, so it is quicker and more reliable.
   Cons: Sometimes you don't want to get the result that Git offers.

